The key is deliberative practice: not just doing it again and again, but challenging yourself with a task that is just beyond your current ability, trying it, analyzing your performance while and after doing it, and correcting any mistakes. Then repeat. And repeat again. There appear to be no real shortcuts. From Peter Norvig "Teach Yourself Programming in Ten Years" (http://norvig.com/21-days.html, this link is in English, but there are quite a number of translations at this link as well)

I would like grading in my classes to be more about providing feedback on your progress than about "evaluating" you. So I use a "B Contract" as the core of my grading process. I discovered the idea through articles written by Peter Elbow describing how he grades his writing classes at UMass Amherst. The essential idea is that if a student does a set of things the s/he will be guaranteed a 'B' in the class. For the teacher then, the job is to identify the things that someone needs to do to reliably develop the skills that would warrent a 'B'. The way that I keep track of how it is going is by identifying the skills and knowledge that the class requires and tracking progress towards mastering these skills. If the student consistently does the work towards mastery, I expect that s/he will develop mastery by the end of the semester and her (or his) grade will be a 'B' – however if the student does not engage in this practice then the contract is broken. In that case the grade will be reported as whatever the standards show (which will probably be lower than a 'B').

Many students strive for an 'A' – an 'A' represents being very good at what we're doing. There's a problem here. Students learning new things usually aren't very good at them. They are learning and that means they aren't all that proficient – yet. So an 'A' can't represent being very good at the content. In my classes an 'A' is earned by being very good at the process of getting better, by providing evidence of independent and self-intitated work on appropriate challenges and assessment of the results, by being willing to try out the practices that masters of the craft believe help with acheiving mastery, and by contributing to a positive learning environment. 'A' students are exceptional in their persistence and commitment to learning – for most this also means that they are producing exceptional work.

Students working for an 'A' are expected to come to conferences prepared with examples of the challenges they have found for themselves, the results of their work on the challenge, and their assessment (reflection) on how the challenge went.
